add: basic k8s documentation (#1444)
jellyfin/jellyfin.org: docs/general/installation/advanced/kubernetes.md

---
uid: installation-advanced-kubernetes
title: Kubernetes Deployment
description: Deploy Jellyfin on Kubernetes using Helm
sidebar_position: 7
---

# Kubernetes Deployment

This guide covers deploying Jellyfin on Kubernetes using the [official Helm chart](https://github.com/jellyfin/jellyfin-helm/tree/master/charts/jellyfin).

## Prerequisites

- Kubernetes cluster (v1.19+)
- Helm 3.x installed
- `kubectl` configured for your cluster
- Sufficient storage for media and configuration

> - Ingress controller (nginx/traefik) for external access (required for this tutorial, see [official docs](https://github.com/jellyfin/jellyfin-helm/tree/master/charts/jellyfin) for alternatives)

Reviewer: From my limited understanding, I think nginx is no longer a good recommendation as an Ingress controller (?)
https://kubernetes.io/blog/2025/11/11/ingress-nginx-retirement/

```suggestion
- Ingress controller (e.g. traefik) for external access (required for this tutorial, see [official docs](https://github.com/jellyfin/jellyfin-helm/tree/master/charts/jellyfin) for alternatives)
```
